# OrangeHRM
OrangeHRM is an open-source HR software. The goal of this project is to perform comprehensive testing of the Myinfo module and login functionality on the OrangeHRM Demo platform. The project will utilize data-driven testing techniques to ensure thorough coverage and efficient test execution. The project will make use of various tools and libraries such as Webdriver Manager, Selenium, Java, TestNg, Maven, Git, and Extent Reports, This is a Maven project that implements a Page Object Model design pattern using Selenium WebDriver with TestNg written in Java and uses TestNg assertion. Extent Reports and TestNg have been used to generate the test report.
## Project Features and Functionalities:
The following flows have been automated:
  1. E2E Test cases of OrangeHRM Login Page.
  2. E2E Test cases of OrangeHRM Admin Page.
  3. E2E Test cases of OrangeHRM PIM Page.
  4. E2E Test cases of OrangeHRM Leave Page.
  5. E2E Test cases of OrangeHRM Employee performance Page.
  6. E2E Test cases of OrangeHRM Dashboard Page.

# Test Framework
* Selenium is a free (open-source) automated testing framework used to validate web applications across different browsers and platforms.
* TestNG is a testing framework that is inspired by JUnit and NUnit but introduces some new functionalities that make it more powerful and easy to use. All the functional tests are created using TestNg @Test annotations in the src/test/java folder.
* TestNg assertions have been used for all the test validations.
* Maven is used as a build automation and project management tool. Maven is a POM (project object model) based build automation and project management tool written in Java. Maven is widely used for dependency management in Java. It also provides a predefined folder structure to write the code. We can add different plugins and JARs to our project.
* Extent Reports have been used for reporting and reports are available after every run. The report can be opened in any Web Browser to see detailed results of each run.

### Why TestNg with Selenium for framework?
		1) Easy Maintainability and Reusability
		2) Annotations are easy to understand in TestNg
		3) Easy to group test cases in TestNg
		4) Parallel testing is possible in TestNg
		5) TestNg Supports parameterized and dependency tests
		6) HTML Reports are generated by default in TestNg
		5) Selenium and Testng both are Opensource tools with huge support Online.

## Pre-requisite:
    * JDK 8 and above.
    * Chrome browser - latest version installed.
    * Maven is installed in the machine and configured properly.
    * Eclipse IDE or IntelliJ IDEA can be used to run test cases using testng.xml suite files.
